[Music]
Postum present Henry, Henry Oldridge, coming mother!
[Applause]
Postum presents the Oldridge family written by Clifford Goldsmith.
Entertainment for all the family brought to you by Postam,
attempting wholesome drink for all the family.
Postam.
Have you noticed friends?
how a mother can sing as simple a melody as that to a baby, and very often, even before
she's finished the song, that baby is sunk in sweet sound slumber.
But as we grow older, many of us lose the ability to slip off to sleep quickly.
And isn't that particularly true about some of you who drink coffee?
For coffee does keep many people awake, even though others can drink it without ill effect.
If you happen to be one of the wakeful ones, it might be sensible to switch to post them,
contains no caffeine or other stimulant, nothing at all that can possibly rob you of sleep.
Postum has a grand flavor, you know, rich, full-bodied, the kind of drink that makes you
fairly expand with satisfaction.
So if you think coffee disturbs your sleep, start now to make postum your regular meal
time drink instead of coffee.
Give it a fair trial, and then see if you're not pleased as punch that you switched.
First, because you're sleeping so much better, and second, because postum is such a really swell drink.
A boy is a boy, and that's all there is to it.
He gets into difficulty somehow and he gets out of them somehow like Henry Aldrich.
But what happens in between is usually unforgettable.
The scene opens at the Aldrich dinner table.
- Will you have another piece of cherry pie, Sam? - No, thank you, Alice.
- Sam, are you upset about something? - Why, Alice?
No, what makes you think I'm upset?
- Well, dear, you've hardly spoken during this entire dinner.
- Well, frankly, I don't for the life of me see why you had to invite Homer over here for dinner and to spend the night.
Sam I had to, his mother and father have gone over to Abbott City.
And besides, one more person certainly isn't going to make any great difference.
But Alice, do you realize there's 20 minutes after eight,
and we're finishing dinner, and Henry and Homer haven't even shown up yet?
Yes, dear, and I'm going to speak to both of them.
Although the only thing I feel bad about is these potato pancakes.
And that's another thing, Alice.
How did we happen to have potato pancakes?
Well, I was going to have cream cauliflower, but Homer says he doesn't eat it.
That's still no excuse for potato pancakes.
Sam, they're one of Homer's favorite dishes.
That's also why I went to the trouble of making a chariot pie.
Homer loves cherries.
Then I said the least he could have done was to have been here in time to eat them.
Just where are the boys? Can't we phone them someplace?
I don't know where they are.
They left here right after school and went out to sell war bonds.
They're selling war bonds?
Yes, dear.
They both been made minute men.
Minute men?
Well, they're an hour and a quarter late.
Alice, how do you know something hasn't happened to them?
Now, Sam, just be sensible.
They certainly aren't very far away.
Oh, that may be Henry right now. He wants you to come and get him someplace.
You tell Henry that wherever he is he's to start for home at once.
Yes, dear. Hello. Yes, Mrs. Kendall. This is Mrs. Aldrich.
Oh, really? Really? This afternoon?
You don't say so. Well, Mrs. Kendall, I'll tell him.
Thank you for calling. Goodbye.
Alice, did you tell him as dinner's getting called?
Sam, that was Mrs. Kendall, and she's terribly upset.
Yes, what's the trouble?
Well, she just discovered Henry made out a war bond pledge for her to sign
And she thought it was for a hundred dollars and it was for a thousand.
Yeah?
And he also left one of his furlined gloves there.
At the candles?
Alice, the candles live at least a mile and a half out of town.
Yes, dear, on the north road.
But a mile and a half isn't so far.
I know, but it started to snow. It's snowing hard.
And I say they ought to be here.
(Dramatic music)
- Did you get your folks Henry?
- No Homer, Gee was the line still busy.
- Boy, every time I call him it seems to be busy.
- Boy, we just had a phone call for ya.
- You did Mrs. Cooper for my father?
- From your father.
- No, for Mrs. Snyder.
She lives about a mile on up the road.
- Mrs. Snyder?
- Yes, she called ask whether you know
You left one of your overshoes at her house.
We did.
Oh boy, look, it's mine.
Now listen, homie, you're getting more darn careful.
Well, I can't remember everything, Henry.
I have to carry all our pencils and all our bond information, don't I?
Say.
Aren't you boys sorta hungry?
Hungry?
I've got some nice corn, beef, and cabbage out in the kitchen.
I could warm up for ya.
Oh no, Henry's mother has a swell dinner waiting for us.
She fixin' potato pancakes in a cherry pie.
Just because I like them.
Potato pancakes in cherry pie.
Sure, as a matter of fact, I like any kind of cherries, just as long as they're canned.
Well, you're easy to please, aren't you?
Good Jane.
Yes, well, I'll be right there.
Can we don't you think you ought to try phoning your folks again?
Well, I'll try, Homer.
But my folks know we're out selling bombs, and if they aren't, why should we get upset?
[MUSIC]
I'll answer it, Alice, if that's the boys I want to speak to them.
Hello? Yes, this is Samuel Orich.
Oh, is it Sam?
It's long distance.
Oh, my goodness.
Sam, who is it?
Hello.
Alice, it's Homer's mother.
Oh, my goodness.
From way over in Abbott City.
Yes, Elizabeth.
Homer's fine.
No, he's no trouble at all.
Mrs. Orich made some potato pancakes for him tonight and...
You want to speak to him?
Well, Elizabeth, right this minute, he and Henry stepped out for a few minutes.
But there's nothing to worry about, I don't think.
Yes, Elizabeth, we'll see if it wears his overshoes.
Yes, goodbye.
Sam, do you realize it's going on nine o'clock?
Well, what if it is?
But don't you realize it's snowing out and Henry has only one glove?
I know it, Alice, but you told me not to worry.
Dear, if Elizabeth Brown was worried enough to call all the way from Abbott City,
it seems to me the least you can do is worry a little.
Sam, let me answer it. I'll see who it is.
Hello?
Yes, this is Mrs. Aldrich.
Yes, Mr. Edmonds. My goodness, two hours ago, his earmuffs.
Well, thank you so much. Goodbye.
Where is he?
Henry left his earmuffs at the Edmonds out on the north road nearly two hours ago.
At the Edmonds? That means they're getting farther and farther away from home.
And Sam, just listen to that wind howl out there.
Well, I know what I'm going to do.
Sam, where are you going?
Get my hat and coat.
You mean you're going to look for them?
But Sam, do you think you can drive the cars through this snowstorm?
No, I don't worry about me, Alice.
It's the boys you've got to think about.
Those boys comfortable in the room, Jane?
Yes, Will. And Will, don't say anything.
But I'm going to surprise them.
Yes. I'm going to fix them some potato pancakes
and open a can of cherries.
Yeah. Was that all?
Well, one of them says it's all he ever eats.
Yes?
Mr. Cooper.
Yes, sir. I'll be right there.
Mr. Cooper, are you sure your phone works alright?
I don't know why it shouldn't.
You boys wouldn't like to stay overnight, would you?
Oh, no. No thanks.
If we don't get home before long, my folks might begin to wonder where we are.
Sorry, we couldn't buy a bomb from you boys.
We only had some way to get our cow into town and sell her. I'd be able to buy one.
You would, Mr. Cooper?
Yeah, but my truck's broken down.
Henry, why couldn't we help him get his cow into town?
Sure, we could walk her in for ya.
Well, if you want to come out and get her someday, she's right out there in the barn.
And you'll buy a war barn?
We'll turn every cent we can get for in the barns.
Well, where's the candle, sir?
Just a minute, Jane, I'll be right there.
Boy, Henry, I bet if we could sell that cow, we'd get $50 for her.
$50, Homer.
$50?
Are you crazy?
Is that too much for a good cow?
Too much, Homer.
She was, I heard of a cow once going for $1,000.
$1,000?
Or maybe it was $2,000 or $3,000?
Just an ordinary cow.
What do you mean ordinary?
She gave something like five tons of butter a year.
Does that sound very ordinary?
Five tons of butter?
Sure.
Are you sure it was butter?
Homer, the point is we can sell Mr. Cooper a bond.
Oh, listen, Henry, is that the wind I hear outside?
Boy, we ought to be getting started for home.
What do you say we take a look at the front door?
Put your things on first, Homer.
I'm putting them on, I'm putting them on.
Come on, let's take a look out here.
Oh boy, can we just think we ought to go home tonight?
We've got to.
Don't you realize we're going to sell more bombs tomorrow?
And we've got to get an early start.
That's true.
Well, let's get started.
Oh, Mrs. Cooper!
Mr. Cooper!
I wonder where they are.
Can we donate that door open like that closing room?
Come on.
Okay.
Now don't push me.
I'm not pushing you.
I'm just hanging on to you.
Listen, I've got an idea.
Boy, if we can do it!
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Good evening, Mrs. Edmund.
Good evening, Mr. Oldridge.
What are you doing way out here?
Come on in out of the snow.
Thank you.
I understand Henry and the friend of his were out here,
I thought you might give me some information as to which way they went.
Well, as I recall it, they were here about six o'clock.
Mr. Edmonds bought a bond from them.
Oh, and incidentally, here are Henry's earmuffs.
Oh, thank you. Thank you.
But I have no idea to which direction they went from here, Mr. Alden.
No.
You mind if I use your phone, Mrs. Edmonds?
No, help yourself. It's right here.
Hello.
Number, please.
Elm 303.
Please.
You mean your boy's loss?
Oh, no.
No, Henry isn't lost, but it's getting on toward 10 o'clock.
And naturally, we're a bit more comfortable.
Hello?
Hello is this you Alice?
Yes dear where are you?
I'm out at the Edmonds.
Well my goodness Sam they announced on the radio that the storm was getting worse and the cars were getting stuck.
And I phoned for a tow truck to go out and find you.
Alice why did you do that?
Because I hadn't heard from you Sam.
Did you find the boat?
No Alice I thought that maybe by this time you would have some word from them.
Well I've had one phone call Sam from the Joneses.
The Joneses?
They live out on the north road.
And Mr. Jones says Henry and Homer had been there and that after they left he found an automatic pencil with your name on it.
My pencil?
Yes, dear.
Well, that's a fine thing.
Now, listen, I'm going to have a talk with Henry.
Now, dear, let's not worry about a pencil at a time like this.
Let's find the boys.
All right.
Good-bye, dear.
Good-bye.
Mr. Edmonds.
Yes, Mr. Olrich.
Which direction do the Joneses live from here?
Well, you want to go on out this road about two more miles.
Two miles?
Yes.
Are the boys out there?
No, but they've been out that way.
Mr. Olrich, I've just been talking with Mr. Edmonds, and he's going to take his car and work in the other direction.
You sure it won't be too much trouble?
No, not at all.
a little early tonight but just as soon as he gets his clothes on he'll be starting.
Oh thanks.
Some night out.
Mr. Aldrich.
Don't you want me to get you a paper bag to put those ear mops in?
No thank you.
I'll put them right on.
Boy is this some night homer?
Keep your head down Henry, sort of walk backwards.
What do you think I'm doing?
Boy, Henry look ahead, there's a truck or something.
Where?
Right down the road, it's just standing there.
Oh boy, come on.
I'm coming.
It's only so fast I can go though, Henry.
She was on that Hercules.
Look, Homer, it's a tow truck.
Hey, Mr. Mr. Who's there?
It's Oz.
Can you give us a lift, please?
Okay, if I can get out of this trip here.
Well, Gee whiz, are you going all the way into Sanderville?
Yep.
Yes, as soon as I find a car I'm out looking for her.
I'll burn the bag.
Well, look.
Do you have room for a cow on your truck?
What's that?
We've got this cow.
See?
We're taking her into town for a guy,
and we're going to surprise him.
You're what?
Sure.
He wants to buy a bond.
Say, ain't she cold?
Oh, Gee, no.
We got two blankets tied around her.
[Music]
Jane, how are you coming?
Shall I tell the boys to come into their supper?
Not for another minute, Will.
I want to get these potato pan takes a little bit brown here.
I knew all the time we'd find a can of cherries down the cellar.
Just the case of our keeping on, we located them.
Didn't I hear bass mowing when we came up from the cellar?
What if you did she's all right she couldn't warm out there in the barn.
Of course she is she likes the cold.
All right will you better call them boys Mrs. Cooper has a little surprise for you.
Boys tell them to hurry right up will a boy.
Oh boy.
[Music]
Come on, Vast. Come on. Come with Henry.
You know Henry. She isn't a bad cow, is she?
No, she isn't.
And I think she likes walking better than she did riding on that truck.
Boy that wasn't a lot of work just nicely got her on the door and thing and he runs right into another drift
That driver was a nice guy though. It was very decent of him to promise to buy a bond promise
Wait a second Henry wait a second. What's the matter have we gotten off the road a little? Oh boy
We're a disnow dip come from now. Wait Homer get around on the other side of him. Go try to back around
Wait a second Henry wait a second. I think she's getting cold around the ears. Well, what are you gonna do?
Time may muffle around her head, what do you think?
Well, Chief, that's a good idea.
This shall be really comfortable.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hello?
Yes, this is Mrs. Aldrich's residence.
Why no, Mr. Kilmer.
I haven't heard a word from Sam.
Yes, Mr. Kilmer, they went right out on the north road.
Well, if you don't mind taking your car out on a night like this, I'd certainly appreciate it.
Gee, Homer, it's nice and warm in here.
Yeah, boy. Imagine finding a roadside stand open this time, and I...
boy I wish we had a little money with her I'll say something smells good doesn't it
Homer are you sure you tied best real tight sure I tied it with a special slip
nut I learned from a guy she ought to be very comfortable where we left her there
isn't any wind there or anything something I can do if you boy oh boy no
man we just we couldn't have a sort of a drink of water could we a drink of
water yeah we've been out in that darn storm and all we thirsty which way are
How are you driving?
We're not driving.
You're walking.
Walking?
Yeah, we've been selling more, bons.
And I guess we got a little further out than we thought we had.
You've been selling bons?
Yeah.
Had any dinner?
No, ma'am.
That's why we'd sort of appreciate a glass of water if it wouldn't be too much trouble.
Well, you said you ought to have something, dude.
I'll be glad to fix you up.
Free of charge.
You want a hamburger and some soup?
A hamburger?
The only thing is you don't have any potato pancakes, do you?
Potato pancakes.
And canned cherries?
I sort of had my mind made up for those all day.
Potato pancake?
And do you have any hay?
Any hay?
Sure for best.
She's outside.
Hit me, she wouldn't want some corn too, would she?
No, Homer, it might upset her.
Well, I can get you the potato cakes and the cherries,
but I can't get you the rest.
Well, that's all right.
I think this has a little supper before we left anyhow.
Say, boys, if Vida and you got a shotgun--
What's that?
A shotgun?
Yeah, yeah, there's a moose outside here.
She wears a boom!
Get a daylight, brother.
First it made it always like a cow and then it swung around the building here and headed out toward the road.
I saw it was a big shaggy moose.
Homer, come on. Listen, Henry, I'm not going to chase any moose.
Where'd he go, Mr. Where'd he go?
He headed right up the road there.
Homer, aren't you coming? That's vast. Come on!
I don't know, it begins to look as if Homer Brown would never get those potato pancakes,
doesn't it?
On the other hand, by the time he and Henry plow through another mile or two of cold and
snow, they may be lots more interested in something good and hot to drink.
And that could very well be Postam.
For Postam is certainly a good drink, and served piping hot in the cup with cream or
top milk added to taste, Postam has a look that says, "Drink me in capital letters."
That's the taste.
It's my opinion.
There isn't a meal time drink made that
can beat that tantalizing goodness.
That lusty, robust, post-em flavor.
A flavor that's really distinctive, really unusual.
That means you mustn't expect when you try it,
that post-em is going to taste like coffee,
any more than you'd expect coffee to taste like tea.
Remember, post-em has its own special goodness.
And like is not, when you've once discovered
how very good that is, you and post-em
will be mealtime partners the rest of your days.
So tomorrow, get Postam at your grocers.
And tomorrow night, get set to enjoy one of America's
great mealtime drinks, Postam.
(upbeat music)
Now getting back to the troubles of Henry Olbridge.
Henry and its friend Homer, outselling war bonds,
I've been unable to get back home in time for dinner because of a heavy blizzard.
The scene opens on a road some distance outside Centerville.
The time is very late at night.
I'm Jim, Mr. Eldridge from Centerville.
I am?
Well, guess you're the fellow who sent out the tow in.
Oh, yeah?
How did you get your car sideways across the road like this?
Well, I've been out looking for my son and a friend of his.
I was driving along and I know you won't believe me but coming right up the road toward me I saw a bear.
What's that? A big black bear.
He was walking on all fours and I jammed on the brakes and swared around like this.
Well Mr. Aldrich, sir, aren't any of you there? It's this part of the country.
That's what I thought but I saw it with my own eyes.
What's that? Another car trying to get by?
Hey, what's the trouble there?
Is it fairly here, sir? He was just attacked by a bear.
What's that? Look, while you're hooking on, I'm going to this roadside stand here and phone my wife.
[SIREN WAILING]
[SIGHS]
- Something I can do for you? - Good evening.
You have a telephone here?
Sure, right over there by that jukebox.
Well, by the way, you couldn't be fixing something up for me that's hot, could you?
Well, I've got a special on tonight, potato pancakes.
Potato pancakes?
No thanks, I'll just telephone.
[SIREN WAILING]
(music)
Come on Homer, come on in the house.
I'm coming. Boy am I cold.
Mother don't fix us up with something right away.
Mother! Mrs. Aldrich.
Mother! Father?
She was... Do you suppose they'd gone out?
Henry let's see what's out in the kitchen. You know I think that's going to be very comfortable
where we left her. I don't know why she shouldn't be. Look Homer look in the ice box your favorite
food. What is it Henry what is it? Potato pancakes. And boy do I like them cold. And look Homer
there's half a cherry pie there. Oh boy we'll split it Henry. Here put it on here over on the
kitchen table. Okay oh boy what a dinner. Oh boy. Now listen Homer when you cut that pie at least
Choose a knife. It breaks alright Henry. It breaks very nicely.
In the potato pancake. Don't bother me Homer. I just found something. What?
No here. It's for my father. It says Sam, Harriet, call and think they might have gone to the movies.
Have gone down to the movies to look. Who wrote it? My mother. Who do you think?
Well, what if it's good pictures she's seen? Aren't you going to eat anything Henry?
Here Homer, use a fork. Remember you're a guest.
I don't need a fork. I'm just rolling them up and slip them in.
Answer the phone. Well, I catch up with you.
Okay. Homer, won't you please hurry?
I'm going to answer it.
I got my mouth emptied first though.
Hello. Who?
Well, this is Homer Brown.
Oh, gee, was this that you, Mother?
Sure, this is Homer.
I haven't been any place.
Oh, we got a cow, see?
A cow!
We're gonna turn it into war bonds.
No, Mr. and Mrs. Old return here. They've gone to the movies.
Sure. And in a few minutes, I'm going to bed.
Sam, is that you?
Yes, Alice.
My goodness dear, where have you been?
Where have I been?
Where are the boys?
Haven't you found them?
No, Alice.
All I found were these ear muffs, this overshoe and my pencil.
Where were you when I was trying to phone you?
Sam, didn't you get my nose?
What nose?
Oh, of course you didn't, dear. How could you?
I've been down to the movies.
You went to the movies?
Yes, dear. And I just called Harriet and gave her a piece of my mind.
What about?
She gets the silliest ideas, Sam.
First she called me and said she thought she'd seen the boys going to the movies earlier in the evening.
earlier in the evening and now what do you think she says but she says there's
a story going around that somebody saw a bear out on the edge of town what's
wrong with that
I saw a bear myself no I did Alice that's how I got stuck has something gone
wrong with the car no it's all right now I've got it out in front and what I
want to know is where I'm going to look for the boys next
you hear what I just heard no dear what was it well I'm not sure but it sounded
like a cow. Now Sam first you see a bear and then you come home and hear cows. I
don't know what it is I hear but it certainly something and I'm going off to
see what it is. But Sam. Hello. What's that Mrs. Edmonds? Mr. Edmonds is back home. He had
to leave his car on a hill. Oh isn't that a shame? Mr. Aldrich left. What is your
place his stop well thank you so much for calling goodbye that you down there
Henry all rich where are you she was I've been in bed did you see a good picture
Henry what's happened to Homer I mean this is all rich all right I just have a
little stomachache for some reason mother we weren't able to get to sleep
may I ask where you've been selling bombs mother and it looks as though we're
going to break all the records boy I'll say we sold a burn to turn near every
place we went to. But, dear, look at my ear muffs. Did I leave these here before I
start off today? Henry, your father found those. Father? Where is he? He's outside
there. And when he comes in, I wouldn't bother him very much. Something wrong with
him, Mrs. Aldrich? He's tired, Homer. Very tired. And so much on edge, you even
thinks he hears a cow. A cow, mother? Yes, dear. He just stepped out to look for
one. She was, Henry, do you suppose best is calling us? Who? Best, mother, best. A
- A warbon cow. - Sure, Mrs. Old, which we're gonna surprise a farmer.
Surprise, a what? A farmer mother. We're going to sell us cow for him.
Where? Where? - Henry, where is the cow?
Out in the garage. - In the garage? - Sure, we brought her all away into town.
Through this door? - Yes, mother, but we kept her good and warm.
And we now have a cow out in our garage? - Sure, we even gave her some oatmeal.
Boy, did she laugh it out. Now, dear, oatmeal. - Sure, mother, we even put some milk on it.
No. You gave us some of our milk?
Oh no, Mrs. Aldrich. We do some off of her in pointing on the off-
[crowd laughs]
Oh boy, if I were you, I'd go back upstairs before your father comes in.
Right now, right now.
Will you promise to call us Mrs. Aldrich if he feels best once?
Yes, dear.
Come on, Homer. As a matter of fact, I'm beginning to feel a strain a little myself.
Same here. At least I want to lie then.
Alice.
Yes, Sam.
I know you'll say I'm seeing things, but there is a cow in our garage.
Well, yes, dear, of course there is.
But, sir?
The boys put her there.
But, boys?
Henry and Homer, they're upstairs and there.
Why didn't you tell me?
What did they bring a cow home for?
Well, Sam...
Of all...
Now, Sam, where are you going?
I'm going up and have a talk with them.
Now, Sam, come back here.
But, boy...
Don't you realize those boys have been selling bonds all day?
That's no excuse, Alice. Think of what I've been through tonight.
But do you think of what they've been through, too?
They sold a bond at every house they went to.
Yes?
And that cow Sam that upset you so do you realize what that cow is what a war-bond pledge
what sir yes dear and they let her all the way back to town through this storm and everything
they hadn't even had supper oh my goodness Sam don't you realize what that means
but Alice they might have given us a little consideration
Sam they hadn't even given themselves consideration there's only one thing that was important and
that was to sell just as many bonds as they possibly could that's the only spirit with which we've
You're gonna win this whole war.
Well...
Mother, yes, dear.
Could you come take a look at Homer?
At Homer?
Yes, please.
You just began to take the churries and that pie weren't pitted.
Friends you can get post-em in two forms, post-em and instant post-em.
Instant post-em is the quick and easy way to make one cup or six
because instant post-em dissolves instantly in your cup by just adding boiling water.
No matter which form of post-em you choose however,
you can count on enjoying a delightful and distinctive treat.
For post-em is one of America's great meal time drinks.
(music)
Hey, you are, Mrs. Cooper.
Yes, Mr. Holdrich.
Here's the money the boys got when they sold your car.
Well, thank you.
And now you can sign a pledge for a bond.
Well, it certainly was nice of you to drive all the way out here.
Won't you stay and have a little bite of lunch with us?
Can we, Father?
Well, fine, fine.
Alright, I'll go out to the kitchen and put the potato pancakes on.
The potato pancake?
Now, wait.
[Music]
Listen again next week, same time, same station, for another sparkling half hour with your favorite youngster, his family and his pals.
The oldridge family is written by Clifford Goldsmith.
The original musical score is conducted by Jack Miller.
And this is Dan Seymour saying, "Your host tonight is Postam, and Postam is one of America's great mealtime drinks."
It's good drinking. Good night.
[Music]